I
guess it was 16 years ago.
He wanted me to meet George Mitchell. So I met
George Mitchell, and at that time, he had become
very much involved in the issue of sustainable
societies and limits to growth. And so I got
involved with the Club of Rome. and decided he
would commit himself to these five biannual
conferences, international conferences
dealing with the issue. At that time, he called it
Limits to Growth. And I knew absolutely nothing
about that and cared less. I thought it was
futurism and I wasn't going to get involved in
that, but President Hoffman persuaded me
otherwise. And I'm delighted he did. Anyway, as a
result of that first interaction, over the last,
ever since then, there's just been a series of
activities and projects that I've gotten, I've
been involved with George Mitchell. To finally
about, I don't know, maybe six years ago, in the
early stages of HARC,
he asked me to serve as interim director of HARC,
interim president. And during the next few
months, the search began for a president, and Skip
Porter was recruited. And when I was done with
that, he asked me to do something else related to
his dream of having a campus out here. He had this
gift on the table at the University of Houston for
all these years, and then he had to come with it. And
that was followed by something related to the
research for us and finally he and I talked and I
said that I think I was ready for the switch. I just
wanted to do something different. I thought this
was a wonderful opportunity to enter the private
sector and really earn some big money. My timing
was perfect. I hadn't been here two weeks when the
energy market collapsed Real estate went down the
tubes. And he was kind enough not to hold me
responsible. University life looked pretty
good. University life looked better than ever.
When was that? Was that about 83? Yeah, 83, 84. And
it was interesting. His major concern was giving
up tenure. He had this thing about tenure was
probably a, what? He's got tremendous,
tremendous respect. I think sometimes it borders
on naivety about university life. I mean, I think
he really does. The idea of somebody leaving the
university, particularly with that tenure, and
going into this risky, chancy, free market world.
He was genuinely concerned about that. You know, I
told him that was not something that he had to be
concerned with, that that was a decision. that I
could make. What he had to be concerned with was
coming up with something that I would find
attractive enough. And he did, and that was not a
problem. So I've been here ever since as vice
president for institutional development. It's a
wonderful job. I mean, it's a reflection of
Mitchell. Who else would hire a PhD in sociology?
Who knows? Nothing about real estate knows
nothing about energy. It's kind of interesting,
because I have a lot of colleagues. and say, you
know, I've been thinking seriously about getting
into the private sector. How do you do that? And I
said, listen, find another Mitchell. That's all I
can tell you. So I continued to work with him on a
variety of activities. How precisely, you
mentioned that Holmes, was it President Holmes?
Hoffman. Hoffman. Introduced you to George
Mitchell. What was that initial, what did you do
initially? Initially was to help him design,
structure his first biannual conference on, it's
called Limits to Growth. Oh. And that's when the
Club of Rome was involved, and that first one,
Dennis Meadows, who at Dartmouth had written
several books on limits to growth and sustainable
societies. There was a lot of interest in that
topic. And George came up with some very, very nice
prizes, five prizes of $10,000 each, and really
put up a lot of money to do this for his conference.
And then after the first conference on Limits to
Growth, George realized that after all, he was
calling for more and more energy exploration. He
was a land developer. And he really didn't believe
that we had reached the limits to growth. But he was
much more comfortable with the notion of
sustainable society. And he's got a tremendous
commitment to protecting the environment, the
ecology. You don't just have to look around here.
The guy is very, very reluctant. I mean, there's
many, many opportunities for him to sell land at a
very great profit. He won't simply because of the
needs or putting buildings, commercial
buildings, and giving up frontage and so on. So I
was involved with that. Then he had this great
vision and the need for economic diversification
for Houston and Texas. And he became very much
aware that there were a lot of exciting and viable
inventions and discoveries coming out of Texas,
particularly out of the universities. But much of
it was going elsewhere because there was no
venture capital here. The only thing the banks
were interested in was investing in oil. He once
told a story of some guy walks into a bank and says, I
have a cure for cancer. And they say, we can't do
anything for you. And the other guy walks in and
says, I have a black box. He says, what's in there?
He says, a new way of getting oil. He says, here's a
million dollars.
He then formed the Woodlands Venture Capital
Company and put up five million dollars. Hired a
guy to really start. Fifteen's over there. Oh,
fifteen's over there. It's five and then five and
then five. It's a total of fifteen. Hired Marty
Sutter, who came in to run Woodlands Venture
Capital. And just about the same time, We started
to think of this consortium of Texas universities
that could come together at the Woodlands and
really work on big-ticket items, complement one
another, and create a major basic research center
that would have spin-offs for
commercialization. And you got involved in that
early on? Right, right, yeah. I was asked, I
chaired the feasibility committee. At that time,
UT was not involved. A&M
was involved, U of H, and Rice. And they had very
good people on the committee, all of whom decided
that they were so busy that they couldn't devote
the time to this that was really necessary. So we
went out and we got A.D. to do the feasibility
study, and that was a self-fulfilling prophecy.
They got $50,000 to find out it was a viable idea,
and they said, yeah, this is a really viable idea.
And they came up with a master plan, and most of the
plan was disregarded anyway. But it was like, this
now has been blessed. At the same time, George
decided, geez, while I'm doing this over here, I
really ought to do something, and I'll just do this
on the medical side. So he went to A.D. Little again
and said, take a look at the medical. And his dream
there was that something like Hark, but a
collection of the medical research. Do you see
both of these things as having really emanated
from George Mitchell per se? Yeah. Where was the
input? No, it was him. It's him. The whole
superconductor, supercollider, again, never
would have happened without Mitchell. I mean, the
guys at A&M, like Russ Houston and Peter McIntyre,
no question about it. played a very significant
role. But if George hadn't been there at the
beginning and said, here's a facility, I'll put up
money, here's housing for the scientists, I'll do
this matching part, because I remember Russ Youth
and I went to Chicago and signed that first
contract with DOE, or the first magnet. Oh, did
you? Okay. And George had to make some serious
commitments before. There was nothing here.
Yeah, so... Yeah, that's, those things I know. I
know that Hark and the medical, the research
center, medically, never would have happened.
That's an interesting, it's almost a side issue
that we have to, at some point, poke into, I guess,
is that whole, because we got from Skip, what was
it, chronology? Yeah. Of the development of the
super... Which is a story that hasn't been written
yet. Yeah. Well, one
of the first things that happened was, of course,
the whole business of a site. And the first money
for that came from the governor's office. And that
was to look at various sites. That was before the US
Congress and the Department of Energy ever made
the decision that we are going to go ahead and do a
national search. what the guys here were pushing
for was, we've got, we're working on the magnets,
let's go find a site in Texas. And they got
everybody, some of the people excited in the
legislature, so they think at that time they came
up with $400,000 to do a site study, six or seven
sites. I don't know, Skip, give you the... I don't
think we have to write it down, no, it's a search and
sell. But you're right, that is an interesting
story. And how... and how the universities work
together on it is also, it's another volume. Yeah,
I'm sure. You know how tough it is getting
departments to work together in a single
university.
And what relevance did these in the park, for
example, and the medical center have to the
woodlands, do you think? And you may have put
yourself in Mitchell's mind, but what part of the
package is this? as an economic development type
thing? Yeah, yeah. Is it for Woodlands growth or
just... Yeah, I mean, George does a lot of things
that are really quite altruistic, but there's
always an intrinsic base. I mean... As an economic
historian... He's very shrewd in the good things
he does. Yeah. The idea is, for the Woodlands, is
the name of the game here is job creation. you
create jobs here, then you're going to have all the
other institutions, and you're going to sell
homes. And as that grows, it'll act as a magnet,
attract other companies, etc.
And he recognized that. And he also felt there was a
real need. He was very much taken by the North
Carolina research tribe there. That was a great
thing to do. His view was, We've got great
universities in Texas, is there any way to pull
those together and have something analogous?
But yeah, with HARC, I think there George felt that
having the HARC presence may act as some sort of
magnet to bring in companies. Because it was very
clear that HARC was going to do contract research
for the most part, and basic research, and
hopefully there would be some spin-offs. But HARC
has pretty much remained...
We're very, very sensitive about using HARC as a
real estate initiative. Right, yeah. Skip made
that very clear, too. Are you still on the board?
No. No. No. No, that's... When
I came to work for George, I went off that. And it's
better that way. Yeah. And I understand where
Skip's coming from because in many respects he's
trying to raise funds and people tend to see
everything in the woodlands as George's playpen.
I think that's kind of overly overdone. But
however, so we really is at arm's length. We don't
really get involved with that. In the marketing
materials we put together when we talk about the
research for us, we'll have a picture of HARC and
we'll talk about what they do. But we're much more
likely to utilize the medical, the biotech and
biomed research labs and companies out here as a
magnet for drawing than we are HARC. And they're
they're far less sensitive to this. In fact,
Dominic Lamb is probably one of the best real
estate people we got out here. In fact, he overdoes
it. We interviewed him. Dominic? Yeah, well, make
sure you got him on the front page, otherwise...
That's right, I said that. Our problem with
Dominic very often is that he's got to make the
point that there are other people out here other
than Dominic. He's so colorful, he's so hilarious
that... Now what is your major role in
institutional development? Just what do you do?
Well, that's a good question. No. I have primary
responsibility for our relationships with the
institutions and the medical center. I play a
major role in negotiating their moving their
basic research. Is there an advisory council now?
for that relationship at all? We once had, at the
beginning, kind of a woodlands research forest
advisory group. But that was at the very
beginning. But the thing has grown. There are now
25 companies. And I just recently put this
together, in fact. You might find that there's
some.
We just put that together for a board, a Mitchell
board.
The thing has grown to the point where at
the beginning it was like a company town. So we took
responsibility for organizing and that, but it's
grown to the point now that the CEOs of all of the
companies in the Woodlands Research Force have
their own organization and they meet about once a
month. And that's a very good reason because while
some of them are mature companies, a number of them
are in the early stages of development. So rather
than each of them, you know, with six or seven or ten
employees putting together their own health
plans, insurance plans, that consortium they
form allows them to do things on a group basis. And
they also get together just to share ideas. The
second thing that's emerged from that is a group
called assets. which is an association of the
scientists and engineers and technicians out
here. And they meet four or five times a year on a
fairly informal basis. They'll have somebody
come in as a lecturer, and they'll have beer
together or lunch together. And that is an
organization that recently got started, and
we're delighted about that. And you had no role,
basically, in starting those kind of
arrangements?
We had the role of planting the seed, and I was very
much involved in founding of the Forum Club of
Houston, if you know about that. Oh, it's
something analogous to the Commonwealth Club in
San Francisco. It's now got about 3,700 members,
and they're corporate people. And they gather
together 15 or 20 times a year, and major speakers
are brought in. Like today, the one I'm going to
downtown today is O'Reilly, who is the head of EPA,
and James Schlesinger is coming in January. And
they usually get anywhere from 800 to 1,200. We
really wanted to try to do something analogous to
that out here with a focus on science and
technology. And now that group is reaching out to
compact employees, So we're trying to go beyond
just here. What was the seed that you planted for
this asset group? I mean, what exactly did you do?
Well, we had this advisory group, and then I went to
a couple of the guys who were scientists,
principal investigators, either in one of the
university research labs or one of the companies,
and said, you know, we now have over 200 PhD
engineers and scientists out here, and many more
technicians. It would be a good idea to start
getting these guys together in regular meetings.
We would find it helpful, for example,
one of my jobs is to help facilitate
the efforts of these people to reach their goals.
And I've done that in two ways. I'm very active in
connecting some of these startup companies with
Japanese investors. So we now have seven or eight
different Japanese companies that have invested
either in some of the basic research going out
here, or some of these startup companies. Either
R&D, equity, or handling marketing license. Are
you working with Sutter closely in that, or is it
pretty independent? No, it's pretty independent
because... That's a different world. Yeah, that
was just a fluke. Just three years ago I was invited
to the Japanese government to spend a month in
Japan. touring and learning about MIDI and their
companies and everything. And that really got me
started. And so now I've been there five more times
since then. And we're doing a lot of joint venture.
We're initiating a lot of joint venture work with
the Japanese and the Pacific Rim. But if we can get
capital into some of these startup companies and
enhance their chances of survival, that's all for
the best for us. They stay alive and hire more
people who buy more houses, who attract more
attention. And also, it draws attention to the
Japanese. So at this point, we have a Japanese
pharmaceutical company that is probably going to
be opening an office here. It will be the first
Japanese pharmaceutical company in the entire
Southwest. Our real estate people have just about
signed. They've already signed. It's going to be
finalized on the 19th. a major real estate venture
with a Japanese company on five buildings out
here. So that's one of the ways that we try, or
through my role, try to enhance and facilitate
their work. The other is, a number of them will say,
we need a library out here. We need a library to be
responsive to our proposal writing or whatever
else we're doing.
We're not going to invest in a major university
technical library here, but what we have said to
them, get your group together, try to identify a
set of generic journals or some electronic ways of
retrieving library materials and we'll work with
you. Not that we're going to pay for it, we may fund
part of it, we may help build a facility for it, but
those are some of the ways that we need to group.
Another reason that But that group is very, very
helpful to us in helping us to identify other
companies or other areas that we need to get
involved in. And the other nice thing about that
group is they're terribly helpful when we're
bringing in somebody who's considering
potential payment. And these are guys, by the way,
that you can't give them a script. You can't buy
them. Most of them are very, very helpful.
So the more of that sense of community that we
build, the better it is. They have an opportunity
to interact with one another, and as a result of
that, they discover new opportunities. And I
don't know if Skip told you about Bay Med. No, I
don't think he did. Well, Russ Euston was over
there working at his magnets. Across the way here,
Baylor College of Medicine has a magnetic
resonance imaging center. And they were doing
theoretical work on imaging. And so they had a
need, and Russ had the technology and the concept,
and they built this iron shield magnet together,
formed a company called BayMed, and now are
looking for investors. And based on the stuff I've
heard, they've got a pretty good chance of making
it. Surgimedics, which is a manufacturer...
Optic Fibers for Laser Research has connected
with Mike Berry's Laser Application Research
Center over there at Hark. We've got a
telecommunications company out here called
Williams Telecommunications have now found a way
of connecting with one of the biotech companies
out here, Biomed companies that is involved in
optics, fiber optics, a company called Optex. So
there's a lot of You know how in a university you've
got guys in physics working on one thing, guys in
chemistry working on another, and if they knew
what they each were working on, it would maximize
their chances of success, even in getting funds.
Yeah, so here you're building vehicles on those
bridges. But again, they've made it very clear
that they don't want that to be a Woodlands
Corporation activity. And we've made it equally
clear, right, we don't want that either. Well, you
know, what I see here is something totally
different to that new community thing that you
read about in the Morgan King book, which I assume
you've read and have sort of a take-off point in its
oral history. But this is a whole new world, a whole
new ballgame that's developing out here in terms
of this kind of relationship of business. I think
so. I think that's why we... Porter, for example, I
know, you know, he said, we're far beyond the
wooden. We're really thinking not just
nationally, but internationally of what we try to
do. And they're doing a lot internationally, I
think. That's partly Skip, too, I know. But by the
same token, there is something there. And with
your Japanese... In my view on that, I don't like
it. Okay. But...
Whatever thinking is going on over there, It
wouldn't be going on if it wasn't for George
Mitchell. I may admit it. That's one thing that has
come out of almost every candidate. In fact, we
have been in a lot of meetings like this with you.
And the photo ring with George Mitchell. That's
purely coincidental, but that gives you a sense of
his involvement, acting involvement. He's
involved in the carpeting of the San Luis Hotel.
Yeah. One of the things you gotta learn out here is
when George calls you, what other six people has he
called? Yeah. And given the same assignment. Oh,
really? Yeah. So your role then, in a way, seems a
little amorphous. Yeah. It's the way you've
described it. I'm kind of like a cultural
anthropologist. One of my roles is I act as the
interpreter and translator between the real
estate people and the scientists. I'm trying to
benefit the people and the scientists.
My role also is once a company is here or a
university,
a company that has spun out of one of the
universities, I work with them on a regular basis.
I visit with them. How are things going? What do you
need? What can we help you with? What's the problem
set? And I get all kinds of phone calls. Let me just
give you an example. Genesis, a company out here,
wanted to recruit an Indian scientist from
Princeton. Really outstanding. The other guy
came out here, and how does he find housing? So I
linked him with our mortgage company. His wife
needs a job. She's been teaching at some small
college. Can we help get her a job? I connect her
with a community college, and she gets a job. All
the way from... Somebody from Houston Bio who's on
the Governor's Science and Technology Committee
calls and says the Governor's Committee wants to
meet out here. They have a limited budget. Can we
use the Woodlands Indian Country Club and get a box
lunch? That's facilitation as well. Yeah, I mean,
a lot of that. We're now negotiating with MD
Anderson for them to move a cancer research center
out here. There was some real serious
misunderstandings between our real estate
people. who behave when they're selling real
estate, it doesn't matter whether they're
talking to a university or an electric company.
And there isn't that real understanding about
academic research and the long terms and the need
for publications and so forth. And I got involved
in that and acted as a facilitator on Boonsman and
that's kind of what. In addition to that, George
has me represent him on a number of educational
projects that he gets involved in. When he served
on the Governor's Select Committee.
He gets an invitation from Corrigan, who's got
this new educational enterprise at A&M, and they
invite George to serve on it. And he says, sure, and
I go, you know he's now on your regents. Yeah,
Mitchell? Yeah. No, when did that happen? I
thought, somebody told me today. This just
happened then. Yeah. Because he wasn't. Yeah,
somebody told me. I hope it's a reliable source. Is
that a new appointment by the new governor? I don't
know if it's by the new governor. I mean, I don't
know. Somebody told me today. You better, you
check it out. But anyway, he...
He's on the executive committee of the Greater
Houston Partnership, which is this consortium
of, you know, and the chamber there decided that a
top priority was educational reform. So they
needed somebody to chair that study that they did.
So George volunteered, and they asked him, and he
said, okay, he can do it. One of the things
that's... surfaced repeatedly has been his
effort to get a campus in the woodlands. Do you know
about that? Oh, boy. I mean, I would think that you
would. Yeah. That's about a 20-year history. And
about 20 years ago, he and Cynthia Mitchell
offered the University to use the 300 acres in the
woodlands for the development of a four-year
campus. That's when Phil Hoffman was the
president.
It was a three-year kind of gift. You must have the
state approval by three years, and if not, we'll
renegotiate. The closest that we came was when
Mark White was governor. And, oh, well. Houston
was supported, the university. The university
was supported. Yeah, I mean, they kept taking the
300 acres. How enthusiastic they were is
difficult to determine. Initially,
what had happened is when the coordinating board
approved the Clear Lake campus for the University
of Houston, They also said for the future that U of H
would have a campus in the south, Clear Lake, and
one in the north. And people understood that to
mean the woodlands.
And things were going along where that was still on
the drawing board. Then Phil Hoffman grabbed the
University of Houston downtown as a campus. And
Ken Ashworth was really upset about that. And
Ashworth kind of took the position, well, there
goes your campus in the north.
In any event, a proposal was made to the
coordinating board to get preliminary funding,
authorized preliminary funding, to do the design
of a campus up here. This was, I've got the whole
chronology.
In fact, I'll loan you this.
I've already been curious about that. This I
prepared when I was at the University of Houston.
This was in 1982. And here,
well, it's... Or can we borrow it and photocopy it
and send it back to you? Sure, yeah. The idea here
was, the history's in here, et cetera. But a
presentation was made to the coordinating board
The day before the presentation was to be made, it
was clear we had the votes. When the presentation
was being made, a couple of legislators came in
representing the Huntsville area, where
Huntsville is. And Texas A&U? Not Texas A&U. I mean
Sam Houston? I mean Sam Houston at Huntsville.
were vehemently opposed to it by saying it would
stifle the enrollments at Sam Houston, it would be
competitive, it was a mistake, et cetera, et
cetera. So the Courting Board voted to defer
that. And Ashworth set certain conditions. When
the enrollment at Sam Houston reaches a certain
level, when the population within 15 miles of here
reaches a certain size, and only if it's to be an
upper-level college so it won't compete with
freshman and sophomore. Then we'll reconsider."
So four years later, they went back to the
coordinating board and showed them that Sam
Houston's enrollment had been lowered by the
coordinating board itself, and even without any
other competition out here, had never reached the
goals. The population, in fact, here had exceeded
that 15-mile concentric zone. And the idea was to
have only a junior or senior anyway. The Courting
Board decided not to take any action. A proposal
was made in the Appropriations Committee of the
Legislature to provide $250,000 to the
University of Houston to begin planning a campus
out here. And everything was going along fine.
Then somebody, and it's the woman who headed up the
Higher Education Committee, What's her name, the
black woman? Yes.
She said that would jeopardize Prairie View, And
Mark White vetoed it. Mark White vetoed it. It was
the only piece of the educational legislation
that he vetoed. So that's that aside. Then after
that... Well, I had heard once that A&M had been
somewhat opposed to this, and that Bill Moore in
particular. No, what A&M had said on many
occasions, and a lot of us tended to agree, was that
if he would have given the land to A&M 20 years ago,
there would be a campus here. And many people
agreed with that. that if they had given it to A&M
and given A&M's clout and their ability, there
might have been something here. In any event,
the gift... Has that idea ever resurfaced? Yeah.
Of A&M? One of the things I'd like you to talk about a
little bit is how central that idea is to Mr.
Mitchell's vision for the Woodlands. It's
absolutely... I would say if you were to ask him,
if you had your one or two choices of what you would
want here, what would it be, he would say a
world-class university. But a university, an
advanced study center university, but at least
starting with an upper-level university. I would
say that that would be a top priority to him. And
he's kicked around the idea of a private
institution. Some people suggested that. Well, I
was wondering about that, too. Yeah, but we looked
into that, and it was about $100 million. And then
we heard that some universities were thinking of
relocating. Trinity had come from somewhere
else. Well, that was a natural thing. And so we
heard about a few of those, and we went looking into
that. And it was best that those universities just
close.
I did have discussions with people in A&M as
recently as three years ago about trying to
identify something at A&M that would be
appropriate to have here. In any event, then came
the economic decline, and the legislature was
talking about closing campus. So finally, to
bring it on up to where it is now,
They still have 300 acres. If they don't do
something, well, it's already too late to do
something, it's getting something of
legislative approval by 1990, which isn't going
to happen, we're not even going to make a proposal.
About a year and a half ago, Somebody from the
University of Houston system said to me, if George
Mitchell will do what the Cinco Ranch people did on
the west side of Houston, I don't know if you know
about that, they have a west Houston institute,
the University of Houston. Cinco Ranch gave them
10 acres of land free and put up a 40,000 square foot
building. Gave it to them. If George Mitchell
gives us 10 acres of land, puts up a two and a half
million dollar building, and locates it not in the
woodland but someplace that's accessible we'd go
for that and my reaction was you guys have more gall
yeah because he already invested over five
million dollars in the university and sure as hell
he said okay and he offered him this 10 acres of land
on i-45 and 242. which made it accessible from
north, south, east, west, and it's prime land. It
means right on 45. And
one, he's never even gotten a letter of
acknowledgement. And two, they're still
debating whether it's the system that's supposed
to act on it or the campus. But I have now met the new
president, Dr. Burnett, Marguerite Burnett.
She's going to do something. I'm not sure what. But
I have the sense that she was going to do something
with it. I said to George a couple of years ago, do
you have a problem if I start talking to people at
A&M about it? And his feeling was about wanting
Houston out here had much more to do with the fact
that someday he saw this as being annexed by
Houston. Yes, he's always said that. And also that
there would be a lot of U of H alumni in the area. It
wasn't, so he, that's what he wanted, but he wasn't
adverse to somebody else coming in and making a
plan. And I did talk to people at A&M, this was about
three years ago. I don't know, I didn't get the
sense that. Of course there's all new players at
the now. I mean, I think, you know, Mowgli might, in
fact, react quite differently. It seems to me a
very logical move, frankly. I've always thought
that they could do a basic division down here. It
wouldn't disturb anybody. Just take the students
who are going to be there anyway. I had Kockenauer
up here or down here with people from his
international business program. And I thought
this could become an excellent center for studies
and conferences and seminars in the whole
international area, especially with a lot of
biotech, biomed, technology opportunities. So
that's where that's at. It's still up in the air.
Yeah.
But we're still working on it. We now have
submitted a proposal to the North Harris
Community College, because they're probably
going to have an election trying to incorporate
Montgomery County as community college. And we
have a proposal to them offering, not as a gift, we
proposed 100 acres of land and some support as a
possible site for their campus. And it would be in
that same place, I-45. What's the thinking?
That's a different environment, community
college, from what you're talking about earlier.
We're talking about two different animals.
That's right. That's right. What's the thinking
behind that? Well, because the community college
they're talking about would be rather unique. It
would be somewhat of a nontraditional one with a
very strong emphasis on science and technology.
advanced courses for seniors in high school. And,
in addition to that, I believe, and a lot of people
tend to agree, that if we had a community college
here doing freshman and sophomore, and the
enrollments were constantly growing, That's why
I thought it was something like a basic division.
You can't even just teach basic divisions all over
the country. You wouldn't have to change
enrollment. Just tell students you have an option
to take a few classes here, and they'd be here. I
don't remember what I said. I said, you guys now
have a campus in Japan, and you've got a gold mine
sitting here. Yeah. It would be a logical thing. It
might interfere with anybody's enrollment.
Well, that's one of Mobley's buttons, is that
international. Now, are you still running a
women's conference annually or anything? Yeah,
well, that's something that HARC has taken over.
And they have a Center for Growth Studies, and it's
in there that I think they're working on. I know
you're running out of time, but could you give us
sort of a... an overview, I guess, of the
dimensions of the woodlands, a reflection, you
might say, on how it has developed in your mind of
where it's going. You mentioned, for example, the
perception a lot of people had as a company town.
That's interesting. The new community thing, you
know. Well, both of those, in my mind, seem
obviously obsolete. So where has the woodlands
gone from there to here, and where are they going,
do you think, in terms of what you see?
Is it something totally different than even
George Mitchell in surmise could happen?
I
don't see a hell of a lot of vision out here without
George Mitchell, to be very keen. That's a
question we've asked a lot of people. It's my
expectation, because he is George Mitchell, he
will live to be 190. I've heard that before, too, I
think. And I don't see any flagging of his energy.
Have you all ever watched him play tennis? No, no, I
haven't. Take a shot
at that. And that is not, I don't mean to be, that's
not as a reflection of the quality of the people
here. But they basically are people who've been
trained and socialized in real estate and energy
and accounting. And while some of them are very,
very bright and outstanding in their field, there
isn't that creativeness. And the other thing is
that George can afford to be crazy. Because he can
draw money from here and there and call a dividend.
And these guys, it's a different level of
accountability.
And fortunately, George is the kind of guy that
tolerates a handful of nuts to be around kind of
reminding people. Dick Brown, senior vice
president for planning. Dick is one of those
people. The guys in accounting think he's asking
you off the screen. Yeah, I sense that. We had a good
interview with him. When things are really tough,
Brown is talking about this pavilion. creating a
pavilion with this marble slab around it. And
Roger Goliatis has to sit there as president of the
women's corporation and say, why the hell are
money coming from this? Meanwhile, the energy
guys, for the most part, have always looked at real
estate as... Oh yeah, they said so without any
reservations. Yeah, one of those guys said to me, I
thought you were okay, Gatlin, before you got into
real estate. I mean, no good deed goes unpunished.
You're one of them. Truly. And, you know, and so
they'll sit there and say, what is it? And a lot of
them feel that way about Hark. Yeah, yeah, I'm
sure. George keeps pouring money in it. What the
hell does that do for us? And on top of that, George
is very reluctant sometimes to sell land. And he's
a land developer. What happens with him
sometimes, we had somebody who was very much
interested in buying 49% of the woodlands in a
conference center in the country club. at a
remarkable price. I mean, a naive price.
And when George heard, his reaction was, if
they're willing to pay that, we could get more. And
then I think part of this whole Greek ethnicity and
its value system is their real reluctance to give
up the land. It's almost as if I'm I'm here to
develop this land. Boy, I'm going to make it very
tough for you to take any of it away from me. But he
does have the energy and the vision and the
stamina. And I think that as long as he's here, this
place will always be an excellent case study for
the Harvard Business School as to how not to run a
business. Because the man is. But at the same time,
that spirit that he has, and that energy that he
has, and that power that he has, forces people to
work on it. Well, there's a lot of dynamics here
that obviously emanate from George Mitchell. But
I wonder what that impact has become established
in the community itself. I ask that in some way or
another. Yeah, I think it has. I think it has. We
took him on a tour last week with a number of the new
research companies out here. He visited eight or
nine. And, you know, he was just thrilled. I mean,
he's driven by and seen this building and that
building, Venture Tech 2, 3, and 4. But he really
got in there and saw the labs and met some of the
scientists and, you know, One of them said, we were
visited by the king and his court. The pope and his
following, they're here. But that's...
I don't know if that answers the question. We asked
Michael Richmond and Roger Galatis a question
which, in a way, you've answered, although their
answers were also constant. We keep hearing the
same thing about certain things, particularly
about the church. What will happen in European
when Mr. Mitchell passes on to the Woodlands
Corporation and to the literature itself? He is
the man who said that the creativity of the video
would. Well, it's very clear to me, at least this is
my perception, that he's not grooming any of his
kids.
And I don't see him grooming anybody else. My guess
would be that they'll sell off the energy company,
strange as it sounds, and that Cynthia Mitchell,
she survives, and then she will.